Explain attestation formats (#743)
slsa-framework/slsa: docs/attestation-model.md

[in-toto] and [Binary Authorization].

This page provides a high-level overview of the attestation model, including
standardized terminology, data model, layers, conventions for software

> attestations, and suggested formats for different use cases.

Reviewer: I think we can simply skip the word in this instance:
```suggestion
attestations, and formats for different use cases.
```

> attestations, and recommended formats for different use cases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
attestations, and suggested formats for different use cases.
```

was produced, including the build command that was run and all of its
dependencies (as in the case of SLSA [Provenance]).

## Formats

There is no single required attestation format. This section explains how to
choose the format best for your situation.

### First party

As a first party producer, you use SLSA only within your organization,

> primarily manage insider risk. If you are developering entirely in

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
primarily to manage insider risk. If you are developing entirely in
```

a closed source environment, no particular format is required for internal use.

If you want to make an external claim of meeting a SLSA level, however, there
must be a way for external users to consume and verify your provenance.
Currently, [SLSA Provenance format] is the most widely used format for SLSA
attestations and the easiest to verify using the [Generic SLSA Verifier].

### Open source

As an open source producer, you produce software with standard open source
licenses (no contracts or warranties). You probably use SLSA so that others can
trust how your code was developed. If you develop open source projects that

> will be consumed by others, you should use the [SLSA Provenance format].  

Reviewer 4: > You probably use SLSA so that others can
trust how your code was developed.

This phrasing seems a little odd/presumptuous. Do we need it in there?

Maybe instead, we can word it in a way that the SLSA provenance format is recommended to use in the absence of any other provenance format requirements.

Author: Yeah, I can see that. I was trying to guide and disambiguate based on the likely use case. I'm okay with just removing it. The other use cases also make presumptions too, though; what do you think of those?

Reviewer 4: Apparently I didn't notice anything on a first pass, but I see what you are saying now. Instead of chunking up like you have it, maybe we can just reinforce in the parent section (`Formats`) that there are no requirements but that there may be certain criteria to include in making a decision. Then in each section, just highlight the potential questions/concerns that might be relevant.

We can then put a recommendation at the end with a brief defense similar to what you did..

Reviewer 3: I agree with the comments on presumptuousness and like the idea of communicating the criteria but not presuming why those criteria are relevant.

Author: Updated! Does this work better? @arewm @joshuagl

Reviewer 4: Generally better, yes. I added more comments.

was produced, including the build command that was run and all of its
dependencies (as in the case of SLSA [Provenance]).

## Formats

This section explains how to choose the attestation format best for your
situation by considering factors such as use case and who will be consuming
the attestation. 

### First party

Producers of first party code might consider the following questions:
-   Will SLSA be used only within our organization?
-   Is the primary use case to manage insider risk?
-   Are we developing entirely in a closed source environment?

> In these situations, no particular format is required for internal use.

Reviewer 4: I see what you are saying. How about if we change the first sentence slightly to something like

> If these are the main considerations, the organization can choose any format for internal use.

I am not attached to it, but I wanted to still impress that there may be some entity that has a format preference. It may be too specific.

> In these situations, no particular format is required for internal use.

Author: Sounds good to me. Updated (and combined with next paragraph)

If you want to make an external claim of meeting a SLSA level, however, there
must be a way for external users to consume and verify your provenance.
Currently, [SLSA Provenance format] is the most widely used format for SLSA
attestations and the easiest to verify using the [Generic SLSA Verifier].

### Open source

Producers of open source code might consider these questions: 
-   Is the primary use case to convey trust in how your code was developed?
-   Do you develope software with standard open source licenses?
-   Will the code be consumed by others? 

> In these situations, you should use the [SLSA Provenance format]. The SLSA

Reviewer: I suggest sticking with the same form:
```suggestion
In these situations, it is recommended you use the [SLSA Provenance format]. The SLSA
```

> Provenance format offers interoperability and cohesion across the open
> source ecosystem. Users can verify any provenance statement in this format

Reviewer: This sounds like wishful thinking to me at this point. I'd rather we use some more nuance form such as:
```suggestion
Provenance format offers a path towards interoperability and cohesion across the open
source ecosystem. Users can verify any provenance statement in this format
```

using the [Generic SLSA Verifier].

### Closed source, third party

Producers of closed source code that is consumed by others might consider
the following questions:

> -   Is my code produced for third party consumers, back with contracts?

Author: Mistake: "backed with contracts." To differentiate from open source licenses.

> -   Is my code produced for third party consumers, back with contracts?

Reviewer 4: I think we can still make that clearer. I feel like the fact that a contract exists doesn't matter as much as the fact that there is a specific delivery mechanism of the code. I think that I understand what you are trying to say but I don't have the words for it. I can think about it some more.

> -   Is my code produced for third party consumers, back with contracts?

Reviewer 4: How about if we just change it to some wording like

> Is my code produced for the sole purpose of specific third party consumers?

I feel like this more clearly represents the specific targeted relationships between parties.

was produced, including the build command that was run and all of its
dependencies (as in the case of SLSA [Provenance]).

## Formats

> This section explains how to choose the attestation format best for your
> situation by considering factors such as use case and who will be consuming
> the attestation.

Reviewer 3: This doesn't read quite right, is it missing a word? Perhaps: 
```suggestion
This section explains how to choose the attestation format best suited for your
situation by considering factors such as use case and who will be consuming
the attestation.
```

Author: Thanks! I took your suggestions and added even a bit more clarification:
"This section explains how to choose the attestation format that's best suited
for your situation by considering factors such as intended use and who will be
consuming the attestation."

Reviewer 3: nice, thanks

### First party

Producers of first party code might consider the following questions:

-   Will SLSA be used only within our organization?
-   Is SLSA's primary use case to manage insider risk?
-   Are we developing entirely in a closed source environment?

If these are the main considerations, the organization can choose any format
for internal use. To make an external claim of meeting a SLSA level, however,

> there must be a way for external users to consume and verify your provenance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
there needs to be a way for external users to consume and verify your provenance.
```

> Currently, [SLSA Provenance format] is the recommended format for SLSA

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently, [SLSA Provenance format] is the suggested format for SLSA
```

> Currently, [SLSA Provenance format] is the suggested format for SLSA
> attestations and the easiest to verify using the [Generic SLSA Verifier].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, SLSA recommends using the [SLSA Provenance format] for SLSA
attestations since it is easy to verify using the [Generic SLSA Verifier].
```

### Open source

Producers of open source code might consider these questions:

-   Is SLSA's primary use case to convey trust in how your code was developed?

> -   Do you develope software with standard open source licenses?

Reviewer 5: Nit: 
```suggestion
-   Do you develop software with standard open source licenses?
```

-   Will the code be consumed by others?

> In these situations, it is recommended you use the [SLSA Provenance format]. The SLSA

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In these situations, it is suggested you use the [SLSA Provenance format]. The SLSA
```

> In these situations, it is suggested you use the [SLSA Provenance format]. The SLSA

Reviewer 3: I'd be tempted to go so far as to say we encourage use of the SLSA Provenance format.

Provenance format offers a path towards interoperability and cohesion across the open
source ecosystem. Users can verify any provenance statement in this format
using the [Generic SLSA Verifier].

### Closed source, third party

Producers of closed source code that is consumed by others might consider
the following questions:

-   Is my code produced for the sole purpose of specific third party consumers?
-   Is SLSA's primary use case to create trust in our organization or to comply with
audits and legal requirements?

> In these situation, you may not want to make all the details of your

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
In these situations, you may not want to make all the details of your
```

> In these situations, you may not want to make all the details of your

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In these situations, you might not want to make all the details of your
```

[Provenance]: /provenance
[remote attestation]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trusted_Computing#Remote_attestation
[RFC 2119]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2119

> [SLSA Provenance format]: /provenance/v1.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Provenance format]: /provenance/v1.md
```

[sigstore/cosign]: https://github.com/sigstore/cosign
[SPDX]: https://github.com/in-toto/attestation/blob/main/spec/predicates/spdx.md

> [Verification Summary Attestation]: /attestation-model.md

Reviewer 5: This link seems to point to this same document. Should this link be pointing to: verification_summary/v1.md?

Author: done, thank you!
